and
hi there I'm Adrienne and I've got a
great great riff for you to learn today
by the band bad finger now if you're not
familiar with bad finger they were a
British rock band who made a string of
great albums in the 70s I think they
were the first signing to the Beatles
Apple label as well and I suppose they
were an early example of what's now
known as power pop that style of music
which kind of merges harmony laden
Beatle esque songwriting with kind of a
more muscular rhythm section and heavy
sounding rock'n'roll guitars now I was
prompted to film this lesson when a
private student of mine requested that
he learned this song and I dug it out
figured out the the riff and just
reminded me what a great band
Badfinger were and what a great riff
this this one in particular is so I
think you have a lot of fun learning how
to play I'm just going to move the
camera a bit closer then I'll show you
how it goes the first thing I want to
mention is the tuning now on the
recording I think that the guitar is
tuned down a tone or a whole step so
from low to high that the strings are
going to be D G C F a D and that gives
the whole riff a wonderful kind of
weight and heaviness and that was the
way I was playing it at the start of
this lesson for this teaching segment
I've actually gone back to standard
tuning just because I thought that would
make things easier for you and you
wouldn't have all the hassle of retuning
obviously if you do want to play it
exactly like the recording if you want
to play it along to the recording then
you're going to need to detune your
guitar but I'm showing it to you now in
standard tuning as I say everything else
is the same the fingering and the
techniques are all exactly the the same
set up to you if you want to to reach
you but onto the the riff it's self then
and we're going to start like this
we're playing the third fret on the low
E string to the second fret of the a
string then we're playing an open D
string next you're going to need to play
that D note again but it's a different D
note we're now playing the the D which
is at the fifth fret on the 5th string
and that's followed by the 4th fret on
the 4th string and the 2nd fret on the
3rd string so really we've got kind of a
G triad to a D tried that although if
it's all all tuned down that's actually
going to make it some an F to it to see
try it
that's not too confusing for you that's
a see ya that's the first part of the
riff then I'm gonna play the open a
string I'm sliding from the 2nd fret to
the 4th fret on the a string just using
my third finger to do that then 2nd fret
on the 4th string followed by the 2nd
fret on the 3rd string and it actually
sounds good if you let those two notes
ring together
like so then we're going to pick the the
fourth string again at the second fret
and we've got a band bending the B note
at the 4th fret on the third string up a
tone releasing the band and pulling off
to the index finger at the second fret
so that's the first half of the riff I'm
just going to play that slowly
the second half of the riff we've got a
low e-string sliding from the third fret
to the fourth fret on the low E string
and jumping over to the Ino t' here at
the second fret on the 4th string then
we've got this little triad again that
we've had before so fifth fret on the
5th string 4th fret on the 4th string
2nd fret on the third-string
we round off the riff with this really
nice kind of thing
because it's a kind of country pedal
steel type of type of a bend and what
you need to do here is we're going to
hold down the Ino t' at the fifth fret
on the second string and as you do that
you're going to be bending the note on
the the third strings of B up to a
c-sharp the fourth fret up to the
another of the sixth fret so you get
that a nice kind of country sound
because you've got that one static note
played against the bend my favorite way
to finger that kind of thing is to use
my little finger for the static note and
then I'm bending with my second finger
and my index finger is supporting the
second finger some people prefer to bend
with the third finger which is another
possibility I'm sorry just bending that
note up till you can hear that it's in
tune you're going for that kind of sound
and then I think you're just releasing
the bend and bending it up one more time
and that's that's the entire time riff
so I'm just gonna play the whole thing
for you now it's
and with any luck you'll be to pick up
the rhythm of that by ear but I'll just
talk you through that just in case you
you're having any any problems it's kind
of 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 & 2 3
it's one more time
and I can add a little bit of vibrato to
some of those notes I think they help
make it sound really good
and another important feel thing I just
think on this bend you want to make sure
you release it at the last moment it's
not um
are you releasing it just before you hit
that that low e-string there that's it
for this lesson as usual I'm going to
try and put the music and the tab up on
my website there'll be a link underneath
this video if you like what I'm doing
please subscribe befriend me like me
favorite me give me a thumbs up all of
that rubbish will I hope help my channel
to grow and ultimately will enable me to
bring more content to you and to film
more videos have fun with this one and
hope to see you again very soon bye bye